Description

In the previous assignment, you designed a system for generating a type of terrain of your choice, and you received feedback on the feasibility of your design. In this assignment, you are going to implement your system. You should submit your implementation (both source and a compiled version, if applicable), as well as a document containing the following information:

A description of how to use your program, including any libraries we need to install in case you're using Python.
Some examples of the results obtained, and the settings used to obtain them.
Any performance constraints; it should preferably take at most a few minutes to generate a terrain.
A description and discussion of the changes you had to make to your design, if applicable. Why were the changes necessary? Do they impact the quality and/or capabilities of your system?
You are provided with a simple Python program that gives you some basic visualisation tools, but you are free to use any system you want for visualisation (e.g. Unity). The only requirements are the following:

Your program needs to run on a Windows 10 machine. You can either provide a compiled file, or your Python code. We will not compile your program from C#/C++ code.
While you are free to use any library you want for visualisation of your result, you are not allowed to use libraries to implement part of your terrain generation, unless with our explicit permission. If you indicated you will use a library in your design document and we didn't comment on this, you have our permission. Please contact us if you are unsure! Also, don't assume you can use a particular library if we gave another group permission to use it!


Using the code

We supply a simple program based on the Panda3D library that can give a simple rendering of a heightmap. It is not required to use this program, but don't spend a lot of time on getting nice renderings of your results. For the groups that will not use heightmaps, an option could be to write a commandline program that exports the result to a model that can be opened in Blender.

The program has a Renderer class that sets up some basic lighting. It also has a render_heightmap function that takes a numpy array with height values, the size of each grid cell, and an optional array of RGB colour values. The colour values should be in the range [0, 1], and the dtype of your numpy array should probably be something like (float, 3). If you don't supply a colour array, the terrain will simply be drawn in grey.



Evaluation

You will primarily be evaluated on the quality of the terrain you generate, and the degree to which you were successful in implementing your proposed system. If there was a need to deviate from your original proposal, you will also be evaluated on the explanation of the reasons behind this deviation. "Not enough time" can be a valid reason if your proposal was quite ambitious!

We want to explicitly state that the minimum requirement for passing is definitely not a fully working implementation of your entire proposal. As each individual proposal offered a different level of challenge, it's hard to give explicit grading guidelines, but typically a fully working implementation will result in a much better grade than a six.
